README.md, before:

# plantgateway
Bluetooth LE to mqtt gateway for Xiaomi Mi plant sensors.

# Use case
For many setups the Xiaomi Mi plant sensors are too far away from your 
home server to connect directly via Bluetooth LE. 
In such a scenario the plantgatway will poll the data from a list of 
Xiaomi Mi plant sensors via Bluetooth LE using 
[miflora](https://github.com/open-homeautomation/miflora).
The data is then published via mqtt to your home automation server.

The plantgateway is intended to be run on a small Linux machine (e.g. 
[Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/)
or a [C.H.I.P](https://getchip.com/)) that has both Bluetooth LE and WiFi.

# installation
* install the bluez bluetooth stack, [python 3.5](https://www.python.org/) (or above) 
and [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/)
```
sudo apt-get install python3 pip3 bluez
```
* install the plant gateway from github:
```
sudo pip install https://github.com/ChristianKuehnel/plantgateway/archive/master.zip
```
or if you have multiple python and pip installations:
```
sudo pip3 install https://github.com/ChristianKuehnel/plantgateway/archive/master.zip
```
* To update your installation just run pip again. 

# configuration
Copy the plantgw.yaml (in this repository) to your home directory and 
rename it to ".plantgw.yaml".
Then change this file to match your requirements.

# execution
After the installation with pip you can simply run the tool from the command line:
```
plantgateway
```
There are no command line parameters and there is no interaction required.
You probably want to add the script to your cron tab to be executed 
in regular intervals (e.q. every hour).

# integration in home automation
To check your plants in the home automation tool [fhem](http://fhem.de/), 
you can use the 
[gardener](https://github.com/ChristianKuehnel/fhem-gardener) module. 
The installation is explained on the github page of the module.

If you haven't done so, you need to configure your MQTT server in fhem with 
a [MQTT](http://fhem.de/commandref.html#MQTT) module.
For each sensor you have, set up a [MQTT_Device](http://fhem.de/commandref.html#MQTT_DEVICE) 
and make it auto subscribe to the topic 
you configured in the plantgateway:
```
define <plant_name> MQTT_Device
attr <plant_name> autoSubscribeReadings <prefix_in_config>/<plant alias>/+
```

After that configure the gardener to match your requirements

# License
Unless stated otherwise all software in this repository is licensed under the Apache License 2.0
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Commit message:

added encryption and authentication to the mqtt connection

README.md, after:

# plantgateway
Bluetooth LE to mqtt gateway for Xiaomi Mi plant sensors.

# Use case
For many setups the Xiaomi Mi plant sensors are too far away from your 
home server to connect directly via Bluetooth LE. 
In such a scenario the plantgatway will poll the data from a list of 
Xiaomi Mi plant sensors via Bluetooth LE using 
[miflora](https://github.com/open-homeautomation/miflora).
The data is then published via mqtt to your home automation server.

The plantgateway is intended to be run on a small Linux machine (e.g. 
[Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/)
or a [C.H.I.P](https://getchip.com/)) that has both Bluetooth LE and WiFi.

# installation
* install the bluez bluetooth stack, [python 3.5](https://www.python.org/) (or above) 
and [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/)
```
sudo apt-get install python3 pip3 bluez
```
* install the plant gateway from github:
```
sudo pip install https://github.com/ChristianKuehnel/plantgateway/archive/master.zip
```
or if you have multiple python and pip installations:
```
sudo pip3 install https://github.com/ChristianKuehnel/plantgateway/archive/master.zip
```
* To update your installation just run pip again. 

# configuration
Copy the plantgw.yaml (in this repository) to your home directory and 
rename it to ".plantgw.yaml".
Then change this file to match your requirements.

# execution
After the installation with pip you can simply run the tool from the command line:
```
plantgateway
```
There are no command line parameters and there is no interaction required.
You probably want to add the script to your cron tab to be executed 
in regular intervals (e.q. every hour).

# integration in home automation
To check your plants in the home automation tool [fhem](http://fhem.de/), 
you can use the 
[gardener](https://github.com/ChristianKuehnel/fhem-gardener) module. 
The installation is explained on the github page of the module.

If you haven't done so, you need to configure your MQTT server in fhem with 
a [MQTT](http://fhem.de/commandref.html#MQTT) module.
For each sensor you have, set up a [MQTT_Device](http://fhem.de/commandref.html#MQTT_DEVICE) 
and make it auto subscribe to the topic 
you configured in the plantgateway:
```
define <plant_name> MQTT_Device
attr <plant_name> autoSubscribeReadings <prefix_in_config>/<plant alias>/+
```

After that configure the gardener to match your requirements

# Security
A remark on security:
Before running your MQTT server on the internet make sure that you enable
SSL/TLS encryption and client authentication.

# License
Unless stated otherwise all software in this repository is licensed under the Apache License 2.0
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
